Pandas Activities - Juptyer


GoodReads - The first step is to read in the csv as a DataFrame. This time, we'll use pd.read_csv, our introduction to Pandas. Since this is larger dataset, the next step is to drill down into the columns that need to be explored. This DataFrame as-is is not formatted. The next step is to rename the columns using the .rename function. Once the DataFrame is formatted properly and contains our columns, the DataFrame can be exported out to CSV. The next step of the exercise is to extract insightful and useful data. We use the nunique() function to capture the number of unique Authors, the .min() to pull the Book with the earliest Publication Date and the .max() to capture the latest. The next step is to create a new column in the DataFrame which takes the sum of all 'Reviews' columns using the .sum function. As we are calculating each of these valuable insights, we store them in individual DataFrames which can be placed into one Summary DataFrame.

FifaSearch - This continues to incorporate essential pandas elements. After reading in the CSV to a DataFrame, the task is to methodically drill down and identify the Worst Striker in Fifa. The first step is to Identify the unique values with the 'Preferred Position' column in the DataFrame using the .unique() function. Once the different positions are identified, the next step is to create a new DataFrame with that drills down on players that have the Preferred Position Value of 'ST'. This is accomplished through the .loc function. Once the Striker DataFrame has been created, the next step is to sort the entries by their 'Overall' value. This is done through the .sort_values('Overall') function. To make the new DataFrame more accessible, the next step is to reset the index so that each player's index number is reflective of their new placement in the DataFrame. This is done through the .reset_index(drop = True) function. The last step to find the worst striker in FIFA is to run an .iloc function which will then search for index 0, which is the reset index value for the player with the lowest Overall Score amongst Strikers.


Bootcamp Analysis - This is a more involved exercise that continues to build on Pandas / Python concepts. After reading in the CSV to a DataFrame, the first real objective is to clean, format, and drill down on the columns within the DataFrame that will be cruical for the Analysis. The end goal for the first step is to compile a table with high-level demographic statistics for Bootcamp attendees. This involves several smaller Pandas operations which will then be incorporated into a robust Summary DataFrame. 

The first step here involves calculating the total Respondents in the DataFrame, which is accomplished with by taking the len of the DataFrame. We then want to filter out anyone who did not attend a boot camp. First we  replace all zeroes with 'No' and ones with 'Yes' using the .replace functiuon. Then we use a .loc where the 'AttendedBootcamp' column's value equals 'Yes'. Now we have an 'Attendees' DataFrame. To get the average age of the Attendees, we use the .mean() function of the 'Age' column. We use the .count() function on the DataFrame's 'AttendedBootcamp' column to establish the amount of attendees. The next objective is to extract the amount of attendees that are also degree holders. The was solved by using a compound .loc function which for several conditions, or in this case, degrees types, to be included. The variable that contains the amount of degree holders is then divided by the variable that contains total attendees, giving us a degree percentage. We then use a .loc to identify the amount of attendees that identify as Male, Female or Non-binary. These values are then divided by all attendees that have a non-NAN value in the gender column, giving us gender percentages. The last step before creating the summary table is to calculate the average post camp salary, which is obtained through the .mean() function. With all the necessary components extracted, each variable is placed into a new DataFrame, formatted using the .map() function and sent to an excel file.

The next step is to analyze Bootcamps. The end goal here is to create a Summary table that looks into the amount of campers at each Camp, the amount of recommendations each camp has and then create a recommendation percentage.

THe first tep
